# Quickly test my script on all gui traces ...

for x in `find /var/log/BurritoBook/ -name 'gui.*'`; do python parse_gui_trace.py $x; done

---
2011-11-20

Install the Xpad sticky notes app on Fedora 14:

  sudo yum install xpad

Then add 'xpad' to:

  System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications

I like this app because it puts an icon in the upper-right GNOME panel,
so that you can click the icon and it will instantly foreground all of
the sticky notes.


xpad stores its data in ~/.config/xpad/

If you strace it to track open and write syscalls, you'll notice that it
does a LOT of writes to its data directory.  Since this is stored in
NILFS within ~/home/, all of these writes might be wasteful, so to
optimize later, we might want to move this directory to a non-versioned
filesystem.

Interesting ... xpad continually writes data to a temporary
.goutputstream* file and then renames it to content-* files for
permanent storage ...

rename("/home/researcher/.config/xpad/.goutputstream-FG1X4V", "/home/researcher/.config/xpad/content-GCQD5V") = 0


Code is in XpadTracer.py


Post-integration stuff

This sub-directory contains programs that all read the 'burrito_db' MongoDB,
(which contains the cleaned and integrated data streams)


Burrito: An Electronic Lab Notebook for Computational Researchers
by Philip Guo (philip@pgbovine.net)

http://www.pgbovine.net/burrito.html

Project started in October 2011, GitHub repository created on 2012-01-12

---

See INSTALL for an example installation on Fedora 14

---
LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Philip J. Guo (philip@pgbovine.net)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

======

