This example illustrates connecting a signal originating from Python to
a QML function.

A timer is defined in Python, ticking at 2-second intervals. Whenever
the timer ticks, the rectangle is rotated 45 degrees clockwise.

This example illustrates exposing a Python object to QML and explicitly calling
a Python function from QML.

When the button is clicked, a few strings and doubles are printed on the
console.

This example illustrates returning a value from Python to QML.

When the button is clicked, the text rotates ten degrees more.

This example illustrates connecting signals to from QML to Python in
Python using a top-level QML signal.

When the button is held depressed, the button turns upside down. The
text rotation angle is printed out on the console. Also, a notification
text about the button having been clicked is displayed.

This example illustrates connecting a signal from a specific QML item to
Python.

When the button is clicked, a notification text is printed out on the
console.

These demonstrations are intended to highlight PyQt's capabilities in different
application areas, and provide examples that are more advanced than other
examples.

Beginners to PyQt may wish to try out the PyQt tutorial and some of the other
examples before examining the demonstrations in detail.

The examples and demos launcher can be used to explore the different categories
available.  It provides an overview of each example, lets you view the
documentation in Qt Assistant, and is able to launch the examples and demos.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

Qt Designer is a capable graphical user interface designer that lets you
create and configure forms without writing code. GUIs created with
Qt Designer can be converted to Python code or created at run-time.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt provides features to enable applications to integrate with the user's
preferred desktop environment.

Features such as system tray icons, access to the desktop widget, and
support for desktop services can be used to improve the appearance of
applications and take advantage of underlying desktop facilities.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt includes standard dialogs for many common operations, such as file
selection, printing, and color selection.

Custom dialogs can also be created for specialized modal or modeless
interactions with users.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt supports native drag and drop on all platforms via an extensible
MIME-based system that enables applications to send data to each other in the
most appropriate formats.

Drag and drop can also be implemented for internal use by applications.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt supports a number of graphics effects including blurring, drop shadows,
opacity and colorizing.

These examples demonstrate these different effects.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt is provided with a comprehensive canvas through the GraphicsView
classes.

These examples demonstrate the fundamental aspects of canvas programming
with PyQt.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

Item views are widgets that typically display data sets. PyQt's model/view
framework lets you handle large data sets by separating the underlying data
from the way it is represented to the user, and provides support for
customized rendering through the use of delegates.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt uses a layout-based approach to widget management. Widgets are arranged in
the optimal positions in windows based on simple layout rules, leading to a
consistent look and feel.

Custom layouts can be used to provide more control over the positions and
sizes of child widgets.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

All the standard features of application main windows are provided by PyQt.

Main windows can have pull down menus, tool bars, and dock windows. These
separate forms of user input are unified in an integrated action system that
also supports keyboard shortcuts and accelerator keys in menu items.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PySide is provided with an extensive set of network classes to support both
client-based and server side network programming.

These examples demonstrate the fundamental aspects of network programming
with PySide.


The example launcher provided with PySide can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Side documentation.


Finding the PySide Examples and Demos launcher
==============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PySide package.

PyQt provides support for integration with OpenGL implementations on all
platforms, giving developers the opportunity to display hardware accelerated
3D graphics alongside a more conventional user interface.

These examples demonstrate the basic techniques used to take advantage of
OpenGL in PyQt applications.

The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt's painting system is able to render vector graphics, images, and outline
font-based text with sub-pixel accuracy accuracy using anti-aliasing to
improve rendering quality.

These examples show the most common techniques that are used when painting
with PyQt, from basic concepts such as drawing simple primitives to the use of
transformations.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt uses the Phonon cross-platform multimedia framework to play common
multimedia formats.

Applications can be written to take advantage of the native multimedia
technologies on each platform via a consistent cross-platform PyQt API.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PySide comes with a plenty of example applications, illustrating the
usage and functionality of different Qt functionality and concepts from
Python.

The examples are organized into topical subdirectories within the
current directory. To browse and run the examples, change to the
relevant directory and run the example there, either on the command line
or by using your favourite file manager.

The majority of the examples have been ported as-is from PyQt, in which
case the original boilerplates have been retained. Hence, although
PySide itself is licensed under LGPLv2.1, most of the examples are
licensed under GPLv2.

We have tried to ensure that every example works with PySide. If you
experience unexpected results when running any of the examples, PLEASE
report the issue at PySide Bugzilla [1]. This will greatly help us
improve the quality of PySide future releases.

[1] http://bugs.openbossa.org/

PyQt provides powerful document-oriented rich text engine that supports Unicode
and right-to-left scripts. Documents can be manipulated using a cursor-based
API, and their contents can be imported and exported as both HTML and in a
custom XML format.

Text is rendered using anti-aliased outline fonts to provide the best
possible on-screen representation.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt provides the QtScript module that contains classes that allow Qt's
JavaScript interpreter to be used to script applications.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt provides extensive database interoperability, with support for products
from both open source and proprietary vendors.

SQL support is integrated with PyQt's model/view architecture, making it easier
to provide GUI integration for your database applications.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt makes it easier than ever to write multithreaded applications. More
classes have been made usable from non-GUI threads, and the signals and slots
mechanism can now be used to communicate between threads.

Additionally, it is now possible to move objects between threads.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt is equipped with a range of capable tool classes, from containers and
iterators to classes for string handling and manipulation.

Other classes provide application infrastructure support, handling plugin
loading and managing configuration files.

The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

Here are the programs in the PyQt tutorial.  The original C++ tutorial itself
is in http://doc.trolltech.com/4.0/tutorial.html.

The Address Book Tutorial shows how to put together a simple yet
fully-functioning GUI application.  The tutorial chapters can be found in the
Qt documentation, which can be viewed using Qt Assistant or a Web browser.

The tutorial is also available online at

http://doc.trolltech.com/tutorial.html


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

PyQt comes with a large range of standard widgets that users of modern
application have come to expect.

You can also develop your own custom widgets and controls, and use them
alongside standard widgets.

It is even possible to provide custom styles and themes for widgets that can
be used to change the appearance of standard widgets and appropriately
written custom widgets.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PyQt4.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/demos/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

XML parsing and handling is supported through SAX and DOM compliant APIs.

PyQt's SAX compliant classes allow you to parse XML incrementally; the DOM
classes enable more complex document-level operations to be performed on
XML files.


The example launcher provided with PyQt can be used to explore each of the
examples in this directory.

Documentation for these examples can be found via the Tutorial and Examples
link in the main Qt documentation.


Finding the PyQt Examples and Demos launcher
============================================

On Windows:

The launcher can be accessed via the Windows Start menu. Select the menu
entry entitled "Examples and Demos" entry in the submenu containing PySide.

On all platforms:

The source code for the launcher can be found in the examples/tools/qtdemo
directory in the PyQt package.

Run the publisher:
$ cd battery-publisher
$ python main.py

And the subscriber:
$ qmlviewer battery-subscriber.qml

